---
layout: single
title:  "After Omaha Code School"
date:   2016-09-12 14:40:00 -0500
categories: blog_post
---

This past week was my last week at Omaha Code School, class Gumiho.  On September 9th, the current class graduated during a nice ceremony for friends and families.  It was a night that we shared some of our emotions and reactions with each other regarding where we were at-- most of us couldn't believe that we were now done with the course.  It was a fast-paced 16 weeks, and as they progressed, while it should have been clearer and clearer to us that we were learning and nearing a point where we could consider ourselves web-developers-for-hire, I believe the general consensus was a form of shock.  We'd been working each day with heads down, focusing on our client projects.  It was a great time, and a lot of great work was done.  Only at graduation did it really hit us that we are beyond that phase, and that we are now at a point of really having to face the world.  We enter the professional world of programming, of web development.  I definitely wished for weeks more of OCS, more course work.

I know it seems somewhat silly to ask for more education, more tutilage.  Yet at this point, I am still learning so much.  I'm at the point where I should consider myself knowledgeable enough to call myself a web developer, or at least be able to say that I can do web development, but man, I feel like I'll always be a student.  When using computer languages and writing code, it's always a learning process.  Even familiarity with a language doesn't mean that one will always know what they are doing.  And it is a common trope that computer languages are added to or changed so frequently that information and knowledge only a few years old is seen as antiquated or useless.  Coding practices change that quickly.  And, while all of that is true, I also feel like that my current programming education is at a point where I look into my next few months and feel like I need to start OCS again, to take on this process again and again to get to a point where I'm confident in my knowledge (and not just my potential for success).  OCS offered such a great opportunity, I want to go through again, or perhaps another more advanced learning session.  I want to take everything in.  There is something about learning this process that just fuels my excitement, my drive for more.

As I move into the workforce, I hope that where I am hired will offer me that same level of excitement, that same experience of wonder and desire for more.  More knowledge, more possibility.  It's a career field that, from here, does have this capacity to deliver such opportunity, and with a greater likelihood of such opportunity appearing in a wide variety of jobs.  I like working in the back-end, writing functions and, well, divining output from what seem to be merely lines of commands, equations, and variables.  But there are so many jobs out there that do so many different things.  I have no idea what I could end up learning.  I hope, and I have a good feeling, that I am headed on to such an opportunity in the very near future.